HARRY POTTER PROJEKT KOŃCOWY
1. PRZEDMIOTY SZKOLNE
Astronomy
Main article: Astronomy (class)

The Astronomy Tower
Astronomy is the only field of study at Hogwarts that has a direct equivalent in the Muggle world. Astronomy classes take place in the Astronomy Tower, the tallest tower in Hogwarts, and are taught by Professor Aurora Sinistra. Lessons involve observations of the night skies with telescopes. Lessons are held every week at midnight, and first years have lessons on Wednesday. Known student homework activities include learning the names of stars, constellations and planets, and their location, movements, and environments

Charms
Main article: Charms (class)

1991 first year Charms lesson, taught by Filius Flitwick
Charms is the type of spells concerned with giving an object new and unexpected properties, and hence this class mainly consists on learning those sorts of spells. Charms classes are described as notoriously noisy and chaotic, as the lessons are largely practical. Many of the exposition sequences in the books are set in Charms classes, which are on the second floor of Hogwarts


Defence Against the Dark Arts
Main article: Defence Against the Dark Arts

1994 fourth year DADA lesson, taught by Alastor Moody
Defence Against the Dark Arts, commonly shortened to D.A.D.A., is the class that teaches students defensive techniques to defend against the Dark Arts, and to be protected from Dark creatures.
The subject has an extraordinarily high turnover of staff members — throughout Harry Potter's time at Hogwarts, no Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher has remained at Hogwarts for more than one school year. These included Quirinus Quirrell, Gilderoy Lockhart, Remus Lupin, Bartemius Crouch Jr impersonating Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, Dolores Umbridge, Severus Snape, and Amycus Carrow. Hagrid suggested that "They're startin' ter think the job's jinxed. No one's lasted long for a while now." Dumbledore suggested that Voldemort cursed the position because his application for it was rejected. The position had also been coveted by Snape, but he was denied the position as well. Snape was finally appointed D.A.D.A. professor in 1996. After the end of the Second Wizarding War, the jinx on the position was lifted. Harry Potter would occasionally come to the class to give lectures on the subject.

Flying
Main article: Flying (class)

1991 first year flying lesson, taught by Rolanda Hooch
Flying is the class that teaches the use of broomsticks made for the use of flyingand is taught only to Hogwarts first years[citation needed] by Rolanda Hooch. The subject is the only one that requires physicality

Herbology
Main article: Herbology

1993 second year Herbology lesson, taught by Pomona Sprout
Herbology is the study of magical plants and how to take care of, utilise and combat them. There are at least three greenhouses, holding a variety of magical plants of varying degrees of lethality. Herbology is also the subject Neville Longbottom excels in. He later replaces Professor Sprout as the Herbology teacher.

History of Magic
Main article: History of Magic

1992 second year History of Magic lesson, taught by Cuthbert Binns
History of Magic is the study of magical history. Cuthbert Binns' lessons are depicted as some of the most boring at Hogwarts. They are only lectures, given without pause, about significant events in wizarding history. Topics have included Goblin Rebellions, Giant wars, and the origins of wizarding secrecy. This is the only class at Hogwarts that is taught by a ghost, as the professor never noticed he had died and simply continued teaching as if nothing had changed.


Potions
Main article: Potions (class)

1991 first year Potions lesson, taught by Severus Snape
Potions is described as the art of creating mixtures with magical effects. It requires the correct mixing and stirring of ingredients at the right times and temperatures. Snape's lessons are depicted as unhappy, oppressing times set in a gloomy dungeon in the basement of the castle, whilst Horace Slughorn's, who replaces Severus Snape as Potions Master, is shown as more cheerful and even fun at times.

Transfiguration
Main article: Transfiguration (class)

1992 second year Transfiguration lesson, taught by Minerva McGonagall
Transfiguration is the art of changing the form or appearance of an object, and hence this is what this class teaches. Transfiguration is a theory-based subject, including topics such as "Switching Spells" (altering only a part of some object, such as giving a human rabbit's ears); Vanishing Spells (causing an object to completely disappear); and Conjuring Spells (creating objects out of thin air). It is possible to change inanimate objects into animate ones and vice versa — Minerva McGonagall, the class's teacher, transfigures her desk into a pig.


Care of Magical Creatures
Main article: Care of Magical Creatures

1995 fifth year Care of Magical Creatures lesson, taught by Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank
Care of Magical Creatures is the class which instructs students on how to care for magical beasts. Classes are held outside the castle. In Harry's first two years, the class is taken by Professor Silvanus Kettleburn who then retires "in order to enjoy more time with his remaining limbs". Dumbledore then recruits the gamekeeper Rubeus Hagrid to accept a teaching position along with his gamekeeping duties. Although Hagrid is obviously very experienced and knowledgeable, he consistently misjudges the risk that the animals he uses in his lessons pose to his students, which sometimes results in chaos. When Hagrid is absent, his lessons are taken over by Professor Grubbly-Plank, a witch and acquaintance of Dumbledore's.


Divination
Main article: Divination (class)

1993 third year Divination lesson, taught by Sybill Trelawney
Divination is the art of predicting the future. Various methods are described, including tea leaves, Fire-omens, Crystal balls, Palmistry, Cartomancy (including the reading of conventional playing cards and the tarot), astrology, and Dream interpretations. Divination is described by Professor McGonagall as "one of the most imprecise branches of magic". Supporters of the subject claim that it is an inexact science that requires innate gifts like the "Inner Eye". Those opposed claim that the subject is irrelevant and fraudulent. Harry is first taught Divination by Professor Trelawney, and then later by Firenze after Trelawney is sacked by Dolores Umbridge in Harry's fifth year. In the sixth (and presumably seventh) year, Firenze and Professor Trelawney teach Divination.


2.HISTORIA HOGWARTU
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is the British wizarding school, located in the Scottish Highlands.[1][2] It takes students from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and also the Republic of Ireland.[3][4]
The castle is located in the mountains near a loch. The precise location of the school can never be uncovered because it was rendered Unplottable. To Muggles, the school looks like an old abandoned castle. Similarly, most wizarding schools locations are protected in order to prevent their ways of teaching being revealed, as well as protect the students and schools themselves from any harm.
Established around the 10th century, Hogwarts is considered to be one of the finest magical institutions in the Wizarding World, though other notable schools included Beauxbatons Academy of Magic in France, the Durmstrang Institute in Scandinavia, and Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the United States. Children with magical abilities are enrolled at birth, and acceptance is confirmed by owl post at age eleven. However, if the child in question is a Muggle-born, a professor from the school would come and inform the child's parents.
The school's motto is Draco Dormiens Nunquam Titillandus (Draco Dormiens Nvnqvam Titillandvs), which, translated from Latin, means "Never tickle a sleeping dragon".

Location
Main article: Hogwarts Castle

Hogwarts Castle
Hogwarts School is located in Hogwarts Castle, a large castle somewhere in the Highlands of Scotland. The castle has extensive grounds with sloping lawns, flowerbeds and vegetable patches, a loch (called the Black Lake), a large dense forest (called the Forbidden Forest), several greenhouses and other outbuildings, and a full-size Quidditch Pitch. There is also an owlery, which houses all the owls owned by the school and those owned by students.
The three highest towers are the Astronomy, Ravenclaw, and Gryffindor ones. There are 142 staircases, which are known to move around in the massive castle which is set upon huge rocks above a magnificent lake. The castle is known for its many updates and changes in layout throughout the years, such as regenerating itself after the Battle of Hogwarts. It should be noted that some rooms in the school tend to "move around," and so do the steps on the Grand Staircase. Albus Dumbledore once noted that even he did not know all of Hogwarts' secrets. The castle has witnessed centuries and has a long history of ancient magic.
The school has numerous charms and spells on and around it that make it impossible for a Muggle to see it as the school; rather, they see only ruins and several warnings of danger. Witches and wizards cannot Apparate or Disapparatein Hogwarts grounds, except for when the Headmaster lifts the enchantment, whether only in certain areas or for the entire campus, so as to make the school less vulnerable when it serves the headmaster to allow Apparition. Electricity and electronic devices are not found at Hogwarts. Hermione Granger indicated that due to the high levels of magic, substitutes for magic used by Muggles, such as computers, radar and electricity "go haywire" around Hogwarts. Radios, however, make an exception as they are not powered by electricity, but by magic.

Typical school year
"Now… to our new students, welcome, to our old students, welcome back! Another year full of magical education awaits you…"
—Welcoming Feast speech[src]

The scarlet Hogwarts Express steam engine on Platform 9¾
Term begins on 1 September. Students usually reach Hogwarts via the Hogwarts Express, which leaves from Platform 9¾ of London's King's Cross Station at 11 a.m. sharp. There seemed to be other ways of entering the school, such as via broomsticks or Floo Powder, or simply Apparating to a nearby location such as Hogsmeade. Missing the Hogwarts Express for any reason is a very serious problem, but will not cost the student points as long as they get there before the term has officially started. The Hogwarts Express brings the students to Hogsmeade station, where the first years traditionally cross the Black Lake in boats with the gamekeeper, and go under an opening in the rocks upon which Hogwarts is built, through a curtain of ivy, and finally into an underground harbour.
Older students travel on the road in carriages pulled by Thestrals (invisible to any that hasn't witnessed death) to the castle. The Welcoming Feast takes place in the Great Hall. This feast includes the Sorting ceremony, followed by a few words from the current Headmaster or Headmistress, the banquet starts after this, including large quantities of food and drink. The feast is closed with a few more words from the Headmaster or headmistress, but it also included the usual "start-of-term notices".

Gryffindor Common Room
After dinner, students are led to their house common room by a prefect. This is a special time for new students to get comfortable with their surroundings because the next day classes begin. The class schedules are handed out during breakfast by the Heads of House. After two weeks of classes, the Quidditch team trials and flying lessons for the first years usually occur.
Homework is usually assigned to students at the end of classes or at the end of the school term. It is usually completed by students in the: Study Hall, Study Area, Library, Gryffindor Tower reading room or another common room. A homework planner can be used to help students to keep track of all their homework assignments. The planner also tells the students to complete the homework when it is opened. If a student fails to complete the homework or is late in handing it in, he/she could be given a detention as a punishment.
Hogwarts' school year is structured in a similar way to other non-magical schools and colleges in the UK, with a three-term year punctuated by holidays at Christmas and Easter and bounded by the long summer holiday of nine weeks. Students have the option of staying at Hogwarts for the winter and spring holidays. Those who choose to stay at the castle during the Christmas holidays do not have lessons and attend a feast on Christmas Day. Students also do not have classes the week of Easter, but this is much less enjoyable due to the large amount of work that the teachers assign students at this time in preparation for final exams.

Hogsmeade village during Christmas
Other than the breaks and weekends, students do not receive holidays. However, students third year and above may visit Hogsmeade, the local village, occasionally. There are normally four feasts per year: the start-of-term feast at the beginning of the school year, end-of-term feast at the end of the school year, and feasts at Hallowe'en and Christmas. Feasts are also called to mark special occasions, as in Goblet of Fire, when there was a feast to celebrate the beginning of the Triwizard Tournament.

Hallowe'en feast
Classes will proceed normally and the next notable event occurs on the evening of 31 October: the Hallowe'en feast. Decorations include giant pumpkins and flocks of hundreds of bats flying across the halls. The served foods include pumpkin treats, tarts, cakes and all sorts of magical sweets. The Quidditch season starts usually with the first Quidditch match in the first weeks of November. In the second week of December, the Deputy Head takes names of those who are staying at Hogwarts over the Christmas holidays. The first term usually ends about a week before Christmas and most of the students and some of the teachers go home by the school train.
In Triwizard Tournament years, the Yule Ball occurs on the evening of Christmas Day, ending at midnight. On the 25th of December, a Christmas Feast is held in the Great Hall. Shortly after the 6th January (Epiphany aka Twelfth Night), the Hogwarts Express returns to Hogsmeade; the second term begins. The exact dates of the beginning of the Easter holidays vary every year. During these holidays, the students may go home. The final exams are held the first week of June and the results come out on the second week. In the evening before the Hogwarts Express goes back to London, the End-of-Term Feast is held. The Hogwarts Express returns to London during the third week of June. Some staff and all of the students leave Hogwarts for summer holiday.

3.DOMY
Gryffindor
Gryffindor values courage, bravery, nerve, and chivalry. Gryffindor's mascot is the lion, and its colours are scarlet and gold. The Head of this house is the Transfiguration Professor and Deputy Headmistress, Minerva McGonagall until she becomes headmistress, and the house ghost is Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, more commonly known as Nearly Headless Nick. According to Rowling, Gryffindor corresponds roughly to the element of fire. The founder of the house is Godric Gryffindor.
The Gryffindor common room is in one of the castle's highest towers, and its entrance is on the seventh floor in the east wing of the castle and is guarded by a painting of The Fat Lady, who is garbed in a pink dress. She permits entry only after being given the correct password, as was distinguished in the third book, when Sirius Black tried forcing entry into the tower, only to be blocked by The Fat Lady after he could not give the correct password. In the first book, Neville Longbottom tends to forget the password and must wait near the painting until other Gryffindors arrive to open the way.[23]

Hufflepuff
Hufflepuff values hard work, patience, justice, and loyalty. The house mascot is the badger, and canary yellow and black are its colours. The Head of this house is the Herbology Professor Pomona Sprout, and the house ghost is The Fat Friar. According to Rowling, Hufflepuff corresponds roughly to the element of earth. The founder of this house is Helga Hufflepuff.
The entrance to the Hufflepuff dormitories and common room entrance is concealed in a pile of large barrels in an alcove in the corridor that holds the kitchen. To enter, one must tap the barrel two from the bottom in the middle of the second row in the rhythm of "Helga Hufflepuff". Unlike any other house, the Hufflepuff common room has a repelling device that douses the illegal entrant in vinegar if the wrong lid is tapped or the rhythm is wrong.[24] The Hufflepuff common room is filled with yellow hangings and fat armchairs and it has little underground tunnels leading to the dormitories, all of which have perfectly round doors, like barrel tops.[25]

Ravenclaw
Ravenclaw values intelligence, creativity, learning, and wit.[HP5][HP7] The house mascot is an eagle and the house colours are blue and bronze (blue and grey in the films). The head of this house is the Charms teacher, Professor Filius Flitwick, and the house ghost is The Grey Lady. According to Rowling, Ravenclaw corresponds roughly to the element of air. The founder of this house is Rowena Ravenclaw.
The dormitories are in Ravenclaw Tower, on the west side of Hogwarts. The common room, which went undescribed in the series until the climax of Deathly Hallows, is round and filled with blue hangings and armchairs, has a domed ceiling painted with stars and features a replica statue of Rowena wearing her diadem. Harry also notes that Ravenclaws "have a spectacular view of the surrounding mountains". A logical riddle must be solved to gain entry, whereas the Gryffindor and Slytherin common rooms only require a password (Hufflepuffs need to tap a barrel in the rhythm of "Helga Hufflepuff"), indicating that it may be easier for those students from other houses who possess a high degree of intelligence to enter this common room than others. Professor McGonagall, the head of the Gryffindor House, solves the riddle accurately.
Slytherin
Slytherin values ambition, cunning, leadership, and resourcefulness; the Sorting Hat said in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone that Slytherins will do anything to get their way. The house mascot of Slytherin is the serpent, and the house colours are green and silver. The Head of House is Professor Severus Snape until the seventh book. Then, Professor Horace Slughorn, the previous Head of House, comes out of retirement re-assuming authority after Snape becomes headmaster. The ghost of Slytherin house is The Bloody Baron.[26] According to Rowling, Slytherin corresponds roughly to the element of water. The founder of this house is Salazar Slytherin.
The Slytherin dormitories and common room are reached through a bare stone wall in the dungeons. The Slytherin common room is a long, low, dungeon-style room, under the Hogwarts Lake, furnished with green lamps and carved armchairs. The room is described in the second book as having a greenish glow.
The Sorting Hat claims that blood purity is a factor in selecting Slytherins, although this is not mentioned until the fifth book. There is no reason to believe, however, that Muggle-born students are not sorted there, merely that pure-blooded students are more desirable to that house, as there are several examples of half-bloods in the house (such as Snape and Tom Riddle/Voldemort). In Deathly Hallows, a group of Snatchers claim that "not many Mudbloods" are sorted into Slytherin.
4. QUIDDITCH
Quidditch Rules

Photo credit: Sergei Bachlakov / Shutterstock.com
Quidditch is an exciting and dynamic game that is based on the fictional game of Quidditch popularised in the Harry Potter books. Played by two teams consisting of seven players each, it is designed to mirror the book version of the game as much as possible. The most obvious way this is done is that each player is mounted on a broomstick and attempts to win the game by having more points than their opponents by the time the Golden Snitch is caught (which in this version of the game, is a tennis ball in a long yellow sock).
Quidditch is one of the world’s youngest games but one that is growing in popularity all the time. Created in 2005, Quidditch even has its own governing body, the International Quidditch Association (IQA) who are in charge of the sport’s rules and regulations. According to the IQA, the sport is now played by over 300 teams in over 20 countries.
Object of the Game
The object of the game of Quidditch is to score more points than your opponents. Players do this by scoring goals which is done by placing a slightly deflated volleyball called the Quaffle into the opposition's baskets giving them 10 points, and by capturing the Golden Snitch which is worth 30 points.
Players & Equipment
In Quidditch, each team is made up of 7 players. One Seeker, one Keeper, two Beaters and three Chasers – each of which have a specific task.
    • The Chasers are there to try and keep possession of the Quaffle and to score a goal by throwing it through one of the opponent’s three hoops. They can pass the ball between each other but only one is allowed to enter into the scoring zone at any one time.
    • The two Beaters throw Bludgers and these are thrown at the opposition to disrupt them. The other side’s Beaters, in turn, throw them back with the same intention. The players in this position are usually the strongest and most physical within the team.
    • The Keeper is a defensive player and is tasked with defending the team’s hoops.
    • Lastly, the Seeker is the team member whose job is to capture the all-important Golden Snitch.
The equipment needed to play Quidditch includes:
    • Broomstick: All players must stay mounted on a broomstick, which can be made out of a variety of materials including wood or PVC piping. The broom must also be held between the legs all the time.
    • Hoops: Three hoops are situated at each end of the pitch, all at different heights (2m, 1.4m and 1m). They are placed approximately two broomsticks apart with the tallest on the left.
    • Quaffle: This is ball in the game that only Chasers and Keepers can utilise. It’s a volleyball that has been deflated and is what the Chasers must try to throw through into the hoops in order to score points.
    • Bludgers: These are slightly deflated dodgeballs and can only be used by Beaters. There are three of them on the pitch at any one time and Beaters throw these at the opposition to ‘knock them out’, which means the opposition player has to stop what they are doing, dismount, and run back to their own hoops and touch them before resuming play.
    • Golden Snitch: This is a tennis ball placed in a long yellow sock, which is then attached to a ‘Snitch Runner’. A ‘Snitch Runner’ is a neutral player who tries to avoid each team’s Seeker, which is the only position to be able to catch the Golden Snitch. Capturing the Golden Snitch ends the game immediately.
Scoring
There are two ways to score during a game of Quidditch. Firstly, the Chasers can score a goal by getting possession of the Quaffle, then entering the opposition's scoring area and throwing it successfully through one of the three hoops. This gives the team 10 points. The second way to score points is for the Seeker to gain possession of the Golden Snitch. Doing so, scores the team 30 points and immediately ends the game.
Winning the Game
There is a common misunderstanding in Quidditch that the team that captures the Golden Snitch is the team that wins the match. This is technically incorrect, as the winner of the match is the team with the most points.
Because the Snitch is worth 30-points and the game ends as soon as it is captured, the winner is almost always the team that captured it. This is not always the case, however, as technically, a team can still win the game even if they haven’t captured the Golden Snitch just as long as they have more points than the opposing team.

